# Adaptation
Mapping Adaptation Types and Tipping Points of Microbial Communities in Response to Extreme Temperature in Global Rivers
Climate change-driven extreme high temperature is a global issue that deteriorates ecosystems by threatening microbial communities. However, the microbial adaptation types associated with warming and the tipping points remain unclear. Here, we propose four warming-induced stress adaptation types: fast stress adaptation, slow stress adaptation, fast stress inadaptation and slow stress inadaptation. Robustness, edge numbers and average degree of co-occurrence network were important predictors of microbial community adaptation. The transformation between deterministic and stochastic processes rather than the processes themselves contributes to microbial adaptation. Overcoming the covariation in multiple variables in climate scenarios, we mapped the four stress adaptation types in 5308 rivers and predicted adaptability tipping points in 2315 rivers globally using ensemble machine learning models. Microbial communities in fragile and sensitive rivers centered in Brazil, Chile, Colombia and some Southeast Asian countries are likely to obviously change due to warming. Communities prone to fast stress inadaptation occupy ~48.4% of global river gauge stations. Approximately 76.9% of these stations will exceed the adaption tipping points after warming. If emissions of PM2.5, an indicator of human activities, increase to 2-fold the current level, the number of rivers associated with the fast stress adaptation type will decrease by ~13.72%. Identifying and mapping river stress adaptation types and tipping points are essential for the management of rivers, especially fragile and sensitive rivers, facing global warming.

#The robustness test is a powerful method to measure network stability through natural connectivity changes in response to node removal, is organized in decreasing order of node betweenness or edge weight, and is estimated by “attacking” nodes in the static network. The method can refer to Yuan et al. (2021).
Yuan, M.M., Guo, X., Wu, L. et al. Climate warming enhances microbial network complexity and stability. Nat. Clim. Chang. 11, 343–348 (2021). https://doi.org/10.1038/s41558-021-00989-9

#Movie legends for Stage I and II:
Stage I. The global tipping points of river community adaptation to warming at stage I. (range from four features of microbial community tipping points to double theirs, n=1000)
Stage II. The global tipping points of river community adaptation to warming at stage II. (range from four features of microbial community tipping points to double theirs, n=1000)
